Google researchers created a framework called the HEART,
H-E-R-T model to help you think about the different types of metrics available.
The HEART model simplifies the vast amounts of data you might have
available by reminding you to find categories into which individual pieces of data fit.
This is a great way to develop your intuition about metrics.
In the HEART model,
product data is considered in five categories.
The H stands for happiness.
That is, how happy or satisfied is the customer with your product or feature?
Some examples of data you might analyze in
this category would be your customer's app store rating,
or how easy customers say they find your product to use.
The E in the HEART model stands for engagement of the level and
frequency with which users interact with your product and features.
What makes engagement good will vary by product.
For example, into its highly successful TurboTax software
is used by most customers only during tax season.
But this level of engagement makes sense for a product whose main use case is annual.
A different example might be a mobile game
where daily check-ins and usage could be the norm.
The important takeaway is that when you think about metrics,
how often a customer uses a product or feature is an important category of data.
In the HEART model, the A stands for adoption,
or the number of new users who begin to use a product.
Examples of adoption might be the number of
sales or the number of users who utilize a new feature.
The R in the HEART model stands for retention.
Much important data measures how often customers and users come back to your product.
Churn rate and number of repeat visitors are
examples of metrics you might consider in the retention category.
The final T in the HEART model stands for task success.
Does the design of your product allow users to quickly and efficiently navigate?
Many UX metrics will fall into this data category.
As you work on a product,
you will develop your own categories and definitions.
But using the HEART model is a great place to start.